<!DOCTYPE html><html lang="en"><head><script async src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/gtag/js?id=UA-114897551-4"></script><script>window.dataLayer = window.dataLayer || [];
function gtag(){dataLayer.push(arguments);}
gtag('js', new Date());
gtag('config', 'UA-114897551-4');
</script><script type="text/javascript" src="//platform-api.sharethis.com/js/sharethis.js#property=5ac2443d1fff98001395ab6c&amp;product=sticky-share-buttons" async="async"></script><title>WINE Conference 2007 Keynote | Coder Coacher - Coaching Coders</title><meta content="WINE Conference 2007 Keynote - All technical stuff in one place" name="description"><meta name="keywords" content="education, coding, programming, technology, nodejs, mongodb, software, computer science, engineering, teaching, coaching, coder, learning, java, kotlin, machine learning, AI, ML, tech talks, angular, javascript, js, typescript"><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0"><link rel="stylesheet" href="/css/font.css"><link rel="stylesheet" href="/css/bootstrap.css"><link rel="stylesheet" href="/css/style.css"><link rel="stylesheet" href="/css/coder-coacher.css"></head><body><div class="container-fluid"><h1 class="site-title"><a href="/">Coder Coacher</a></h1><hr><h4 class="site-subtitle text-right">Coaching Coders</h4></div><div id="amzn-assoc-ad-99d6751e-2392-4004-ad16-73aa8385d9d0"></div><script async src="//z-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/onejs?MarketPlace=US&amp;adInstanceId=99d6751e-2392-4004-ad16-73aa8385d9d0"></script><div class="post__breadcrumb"><div class="container"><ol class="breadcrumb"><li><a href="/">Coder Coacher</a></li><li><a href="/GoogleTechTalks/">GoogleTechTalks</a></li><li class="active">â¤µ</li></ol></div></div><h2 class="post__title"><b>WINE Conference 2007 Keynote</b></h2><h5 class="post__date">2008-01-03</h5><div class="container"><div class="video-responsive"><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/GqEp8psjv5s" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe></div><div class="post__text">hometowner fly solo so the agenda is the
usual one you want another twist it is a
date then the usual about 10 20
be just on the car so the usual nice of
code I like to do that to reassure
myself that rusty
we should reach to me an item code in
your future maybe that's how we can
reach officer I a long patch for you if
that helps tree crashes to rick is not
gonna get it well i can put them in like
ten patches if you like you can give a
prize to the community which is two
million eyes like they do a fraction box
Megan's visitor still it seems that this
guy is 50 be under control still
you
you
yeah he does great sort of 3d that was
the vision that I didn't do wonder
though last year so I'm going to find a
new reason this year and I think it's
working pretty well now as far as games
are concerned it's no longer the main
problem the main problem we have is copy
protection which is next item there's
been some work done on that but didn't
work out as well as I was hoping and it
seems yeah i think i'm working on the
cable yeah and it seems unfortunately
that there are many copy protection
schemes that we won't be able to support
so that that will probably remain an
open issue for a long time we've made a
lot of progress on installers I think we
are pretty close to being able to say
that anything we try we at least install
there's been progress on come RPC on
that stuff that Rob loves we are
actually beginning to use wheedle to
generate some real code in the 13 I was
hoping we could do more of that but not
quite there yet we still have some
middle generated code in the tree that
we should really get rid of there's been
a lot of work done on the crypto stuff
mostly Huan is single-handedly
implemented all the crypto DLLs it's
pretty impressive
and the opengl child windows just barely
made the list the pressure has committed
few days ago it's still not a hundred
percent working but it's one of these
long-standing issues that we've finally
making some progress on so I'm happy
with that some more compliments also
window management is has been a
long-standing issue and I think it's
finally unblocked in the sense that we
can now make progress even if it's now
still some problems and some new
problems but I think we we see the end
of the tunnel centrally and there's been
progress on the sound which had been a
long long standing issue too I mean it
never really worked right and it's still
not working quite right but but that's
mostly a Linux problem and all these
different drivers it's really really
hard to make it work fine hopefully we
will be able to default to alpha sound
support in the near future so that will
have a different range of bugs by
default then we've done some code
cleanups a lot of people have been doing
fixing Coverity issues and no more leaks
and all that sort of stuff that it's not
very sexy but when you when you make the
sum of all the patches it adds up to
really improving the the code quality
also a number of small improvements that
they don't look like much like timezone
detection
but when you when you try one of two
years ago then the user experience was
really not not as good as it is today
and finally the switch to get I think
worked out very well by now essentially
all the batches are indeed format let's
all switch the website and bugzilla
anything over to get so that that turned
out to be a really good choice and i
think the gate by section tool is very
useful and the bug reports are now
actually useful when you have a whip out
about the regression we actually have a
chance of doing something about it that
really helped so to show the power of
get i updated the committee amounts
graph so as you can see since the
adoption of gates the number of commits
says steadily climbed it was two years
ago so around I know how goes agosto
five yeah there because as you saw
number of lines is essentially not going
faster but the number of committees so
that means commits are smaller and it is
useful for regression for stuff like
that it's helpful for me to review
smaller batches so I think clearly
everybody has has cut the idea that the
patches have to be small and that's
great
and as you can see we are now reaching
800 comments per month so since there
are usually no comments on weekends that
40 commits per day that's not bad so I
also updated the dll separation table
the number function that we still have
to fix so you can see we're making
progress on this forum to last year we
fixed entity internal this here with
fixed finally GDI and next year
hopefully we'll fix user 32 and then it
will be done that at this point it is
really no longer an issue i'm just
showing that to to show that we are
making progress but i don't think a
lesser version is an issue anymore i
wanted to update you a bit on the work
we've been doing the software freedom
law center as you may know they are
essentially there are our lawyers they
are doing well they should be doing all
the legals the work that we need them to
do working with them has been very slow
unfortunately it's I mean there are
really good guys they really know what
they're doing but they have lots of
other projects and I don't think we are
really a priority for them
yeah it's really difficult we we try to
do weekly calls and after a few weeks
because just stopped happening and we
don't know why it's really hard to to
get in touch with them and to get to get
something done still we have been
working on on several fronts the main
one is copyright trying to get a clear
track of all the contributions to one
getting basically a paper trail of every
contribution in order to do that we've
been building when new man has been
building a website that we've been
hoping to make public for the past I
don't know six months or so the idea is
that every contributor will have to go
to the website and register enter the
name and email and then there would be a
couple of forms there is a forum where
you assert that your patches are
released under lgpl and can be
distributed as part of wine and a couple
of questions like whether you have
disassembled windows code or sign an NDA
with microsoft stuff like that it's it's
similar to the questionnaire that we
sent a couple of years ago the idea is
to do the questionnaire online basically
and once this is in place the idea is
that no patch will be accepted and
unless the contributor has filled the
necessary form so that will ensure that
we have the paper trail going forward
except this is not on paper but
the IDS we try to make it as easy as
possible that yeah I mean if it if it's
not if it's not relevant for copyright
then doesn't need to do that yeah we
tried to be the generic tool and the ID
was to hand this over to the sflc so
that they can use it for the project
they they work with of course as soon as
we handed it over then they stopped
happening and you just told the other
thing was that there are a few a few
questions in the questionnaire that may
be personal or while private so that the
ID was that only the sflc would have
access to the answers even Jeremy or
myself wouldn't be able to see what your
replies were but of course that requires
that the sslc actually does some work so
I don't know when we will be able to put
this in place it's basically ready but
the last the last one person is taking a
long time
yeah the idea is that the questioner
that you filled out will be imported in
the database so you shouldn't have to to
run sort of questions again yeah cuz the
next step is is we want to take it live
and have you try it and say if you think
it's acceptable if because we don't know
we've tried to keep it simple but it may
not be that simple still here the idea
is that we kept it simple so that
everybody will really have to do that
that's the only way we can ensure going
forward that that we have all the
copyright information that gsfc thinks
is important to have another thing we've
been doing with them is filing a
trademark for wine so this is done they
have filed the paperwork so we should
have a trademark for the name line as
well as the logo the glass logo and this
is in progress with the administration
of I don't know our trademarks work but
that's that's essentially done
and then of course the issue of patents
is is the main problem with wine and
with Linux and with all the open source
project is Microsoft going behind the
scene and telling people that they have
patents and using mine is really
dangerous because you know we have all
these patterns and we don't tell you
which ones but you should be careful so
the sfc is is doing work on that not
just online but on on Linux in general
they are reviewing patents and they will
try to invalidate most of them if they
can but again this is going to take a
lot of time because you have to file an
appeal with the button of ease and they
have to review the patent and I don't
know it will probably be years before
before we will see an effect of that but
silly is not forgotten there are they
are working on it
yes the the review is tied with the
copyright stuff essentially they're
trying to match every contribution back
to the contributor and make sure that we
have the paperwork for that contributor
so so yeah it's basically well they
started to do it before we switch to get
so they they had their own tools and
they extracted that from CVS now it's
probably a lot easier to do but yeah
they built a big database of all the
patches and all the contributors and the
idea is that at some point first we will
try to reach everybody like we already
did send a questionnaire and try to find
people who are no longer around and try
to drag them down make them feel the
questionnaire and in the end it may be
that there is some code that we cannot
cannot find the author and then we most
likely have to to remove that code and
we write it the hope is that this will
be a really small part of one okay
that's it for the sslc the question on
the topic so we will just keep waiting
until something happens
so release one dirt 0 I'm really
starting to the out of excuses for not
doing it yet I it's not it's not so much
it's not that interesting so it's not a
good excuse now I thought that we could
try to work a bit on the bug database so
that's a good excuse right now we have
about 3,000 bucks and clearly that's
completely unmanageable so I think we
need to to sort the bugs somehow and
build a list of the ones that we think
are important for one dodo so that we
can actually have a target and have I
don't know how to do how we will do that
in bugzilla but have a query that we can
run and see how many bugs remain and
once once there are few enough bugs and
we think have to be fixed then we can do
a code freeze and accept only patches
that fix one of the bugs that are in the
list
so maybe we should do a session about
bugzilla I don't know if there are
people here who are interested in in
managing that this idea we can do that
if it's its priorities will we have a
wonderful meta bug that completely
useless at the moment whether we should
use that or some other mechanism in
bugzilla i don't know that i think it's
it's worth pretty impressively for the
past two years I think that's mostly do
well first because one is actually
starting to be useful and because of the
all that nine release send a message to
people that now they can actually try it
and they did them they found out that it
still didn't work so they file bugs we
have been fixing more bugs too so that's
that's good you're still not fitting
them as fast as they come in
unfortunately this only shows the the
ones that have been fixed so there are a
lot mobiles that have been closed
because there are duplicates or invalid
or I don't know because they they pasted
the log instead of attaching it or some
some other major crime like that also um
when I had the basically the same graph
last year and I updated the stats for
this year and noticed that we have fixed
a lot of the very old bugs so if you
look 2002 2003 there are very few bugs
fight then that are still open there
were a lot more last year so that shows
that we have really been fixing not just
the most recent bugs but we've been
making progress on really long-standing
issues and that that's very encouraging
okay then i listed a few things that are
not going too well not going to block
wonder though they can be in one auto if
if well if you want them in one that all
you have to really start pushing for
them and working on them so the 64-bit
support obviously is not the priority
and did needs a GCC support that we
don't have so it's not going to happen
in any future the famous dip engine is
still still in the to do list it was
probably in the to do list ten years ago
and I did the first presentation there
was a summer of code project which
didn't quite work and maybe we should
have a discussion about that because he
feels very strongly about the summer of
code I also think that given gene is not
something that can be done by a new
student in a summer of code the cost y
ver 2 has been really stalled in the
past year there was Pierre started when
I fought a year ago but when essentially
realized that he had to rewrite half of
the existing driver mechanisms these he
got discouraged and I don't blame him
but since this requires essentially a
major redesign of the driver than I
don't think that's going to happen
anytime soon and direct3d 10 is also
in its on the radar but I don't think
it's going to happen it's also some of
code project that well didn't go very
far we didn't have a lot of success this
year with the Summer of Code dotnet is
also of course the usual everybody
thinks yeah yeah we can we can get the
sauce that it will be a big help so it's
one of these things that everybody
agrees that we should be doing but that
nobody really wants to first to do and I
can understand that finally I put the
gplv3 in here just to generate new flame
war I think it's something that may
happen in the future it may not my
impression from the discussion of well
lack of discussion is that essentially
nobody cares I don't know well how many
people feel strongly about gplv3 12 okay
yeah that I think it may happen if we
find a big chunk of gold like from
sambar that we want to merge then yeah
yay it has a few few small advantages I
just don't think it's worth the trouble
at least at this point and since since
most people don't care and I don't
really care either so yeah it's always
an option and if it becomes necessary
then we can do it okay so well it seems
we cannot have a flame war about that we
wait hard because we cannot have way
more about version control because gate
is so obviously better than anything
else so discussion is closed and nobody
started a governance flame war this year
so no I don't know what you can do yeah
maybe you should I don't know someone
should tell bob lennon that we are in
one convent maybe he didn't realize that
okay well since if we cannot have flame
war and that's all I have to say</div></div><div class="container-fluid bottom-ad"><div id="amzn-assoc-ad-6a809dda-347a-4187-8a86-91faf94575da"></div><script async src="//z-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/onejs?MarketPlace=US&amp;adInstanceId=6a809dda-347a-4187-8a86-91faf94575da"></script></div><div class="text-center">We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.</div><script>(function(w, d){
    var b = d.getElementsByTagName('body')[0];
    var s = d.createElement("script"); s.async = true;
    var v = !("IntersectionObserver" in w) ? "8.6.0" : "10.4.2";
    s.src = "https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/vanilla-lazyload/" + v + "/lazyload.min.js";
    w.lazyLoadOptions = {};
    b.appendChild(s);
}(window, document));</script></body></html>